
Microsoft DiskPart version 6.1.7600
Copyright (C) 1999-2008 Microsoft Corporation.
On computer: iBat-PC

DISKPART> 
    Enables or disables the automount feature.

Syntax:  AUTOMOUNT [ENABLE] [DISABLE] [SCRUB] [NOERR]

    ENABLE      Enables Windows to automatically assign drive letters
                to volumes that are added to the system.

    DISABLE     Prevents Windows from automatically assigning drive letters
                to volumes that are added to the system.

    SCRUB       Removes mounted folder pathnames, drive letters, mounted 
                folder directories, and registry settings, for volumes that
                are no longer in the system. This prevents volumes that were 
                previously in the system from being automatically assigned 
                their former drive letters and mounted folder pathnames when
                they are reintroduced to the system.

    NOERR       For scripting only. When an error is encountered, DiskPart
                continues to process commands as if the error did not occur.
                Without the NOERR parameter, an error causes DiskPart to exit
                with an error code.

    When the AutoMount feature is enabled (the default on some versions 
    of Windows Server), Windows automatically brings the volume online,
    and, assigns a drive letter and a volume GUID pathname to the volume, 
    when the volume is added to the system. In storage area network (SAN) 
    configurations, disabling AutoMount prevents Windows from automatically
    onlining the volume and assigning drive letters or volume GUID pathnames
    to any new volumes that are visible to the system.
    
    Note that the AutoMount feature could only be applied to basic disk 
    volumes on Windows versions released prior to Windows Vista. Starting 
    with Windows Vista, the AutoMount feature can be applied to both basic 
    and dynamic disk volumes.

Example:

    AUTOMOUNT
    AUTOMOUNT ENABLE
    AUTOMOUNT DISABLE

DISKPART> 
