
Windows System Assessment Tool

        
COMMAND LINE USAGE :            
        WINSAT <assessment_name> [switches]

It's necessary to supply an assessment name.  In contrast, switches are optional. 
Valid assessment names already seen in Vista include: 

        formal          run the full set of assessments 

        dwm             Run the Desktop Windows Manager assessment
                        - Re-assess the systems graphics capabilities and 
                          restart the Desktop Window Manager.

        cpu             Run the CPU assessment.  
        mem             Run the system memory assessment.  
        d3d             Run the d3d assessment
        disk            Run the storage assessment
        media           Run the media assessment                        
        mfmedia         Run the Media Foundation based assessment       
        features        Run just the features assessment                
                        - Enumerates the system's features. 
                        - It's best used with the -xml <filename> switch 
                        to save the data.  
                        - The 'eef'switch can be used to enumerate extra 
                        features such as optical disks, memory modules, 
                        and other items.
        
PRE-POPULATION: 
The new command-line  options for pre-populating WinSAT assessment results are :  
        
        Winsat prepop [-datastore <directory>] [ -graphics | -cpu | -mem | -disk | -dwm ]


This generates WinSAT xml files whose filenames contain "prepop".  For example :
        0008-09-26 14.48.28.542 Cpu.Assessment (Prepop).WinSAT.xml

The filename pattern is :       
        %IdentifierDerivedFromDate% %Component%.Assessment(Prepop).WinSAT.xml

The datastore directory option specifies an alternative target location for generated xml files. 
If no location is specified, everything is pre-populated to 
        %WINDIR%\performance\winsat\datastore.  

To generate a full set of result xml files, use "winsat prepop".  

It is also possible to pre-populate results for a subsystem, such as CPU, 
subject to the following dependencies:

        The CPU assessment has a secondary dependency on the Memory assessment
        The Memory assessment has a secondary depenency on the CPU assessment
        The Graphics assessment has a secondary dependency on both CPU and Memory assessments
        The DWM assessment can run standalone
        The Disk assessment can run standalone 

If the assessment for a secondary dependency is not present, WinSAT will run the 
secondary assessment along with the requested primary assessment.  

For example,  "winsat prepop -cpu"  will run both the CPU and the Memory test, 
if the xml file for the Memory test is not present.     



OTHER NEW Win7 ASSESSMENT OPTIONS :

        dwmformal       Run Desktop Windows Manager assessment to generate the WinSAT Graphics score
        cpuformal       Run CPU assessment to generate the WinSAT Processor score
        memformal       Run Memory assessment to generate the WinSAT Memory (RAM) score
        graphicsformal  Run Graphics assessment to generate the WinSAT Gaming Graphics score
        diskformal      Run Disk assessment to generate the WinSAT Primary Hard Disk score
                        
All formal assessments will save the data (xml files) in 
                %WINDIR%\performance\winsat\datastore.  

If a system has been prepopulated (using files generated by the "winsat prepop" option), 
it is not necessary to run formal assessments.


SUB-ASSESSMENTS:
While investigating results, it may be convenient to look at individual assessments.  
Options for running Gaming Graphics sub-assessments include:

        Winsat graphicsformal3d
        Winsat graphicsformalmedia

        DX9 Variations:  
                Winsat d3d -dx9
                winsat d3d -batch
                winsat d3d -alpha
                winsat d3d -tex
                winsat d3d -alu

        DWM/DX10 variations:  
                Winsat d3d -dx10
                winsat d3d -dx10 -alpha
                winsat d3d -dx10 -tex
                winsat d3d -dx10 -alu
                winsat d3d -dx10 -batch
                winsat d3d -dx10 -geomf4
                winsat d3d -dx10 -geomf27
                winsat d3d -dx10 -geomv8
                winsat d3d -dx10 -gemov32
                winsat d3d -dx10 -cbuffer



OPTIONS FOR FORMAL ASSESSMENTS FOR SUBSEQUENT RUNS ON THE SAME MACHINE:

The default behavior for "WinSAT formal" when a complete set of winsat formal files is present 
and a second "winsat formal" run is requested is to 
        1) Run incrementally if component change implies that an assessment needs to be re-run, 
                e.g. if a video card were updated  
        2) If no component updates were detected, re-run all assessments.

        The restart option enables behaviour other than the default.  The syntax is :           
                Winast formal -restart [clean|never]
        
                Winsat formal -restart          Reruns all assessments. 
                Winsat formal -restart never    Attempts to run incrementally.
                Winsat formal -restart clean    Reruns all assessments and provides the same functionality as “forgethistory? 
                Winsat forgethistory            Choosing to forgethistory will rate a machine as if for the first time.


OTHER COMMAND LINE OPTIONS :
        -v                      Enables verbose output
        -xml                    Saves the XML output to 'filename'

        <command> -log <fn>     Generates a log file associated with the specified command, such as disk
                                The -log switch can be used with any WinSAT command.

        viewlog -i <filename>   Dumps the results of a log file .  
        viewevents              Used to view relevant winsat events in the event log. 
                                (This launches the event log)
        query                   Can be used to query the current datastore.
